---
layout: page
#
# Content
#
subheadline: "Workshops"
title: "Workshops"
teaser: ""
header:
   image_fullwidth: "hawaii.jpg"
   permalink: "/contact/"
---


<h2>3rd International Workshop on Fault Tolerant Systems</h2>

Fault Tolerance is a cross-cutting issue that spans all layers of the
hardware/software stack, and hence, requires coupled improvements in each layer
and co-design between the different layers. FTS aims at providing a venue for
researchers to share experiences across the hardware/software layers and
attendees to get a holistic view of fault tolerance techniques, especially with
a focus on HPC and parallel computing.


<h2>Workshop on Monitoring and Analysis for High Performance Computing Systems Plus Applications</h2>

Architects, administrators, and users of modern high-performance computing
(HPC) systems strive to meet goals of energy, resource, and application
efficiency. Optimizing for any or all of these can only be accomplished through
analysis of appropriate system and application information. While application
performance analysis tools can provide application performance insight, the
associated overhead typically decreases application performance while the tools
are being employed. Thus they are typically used for application performance
tuning but not for production application runs. Likewise traditional system
monitoring tools in conjunction with analysis tools can provide insight into
run-time system resource utilization. However, due to overhead and impact
concerns, such tools are often run with collection periods on order of minutes
or only used to solve problems and not during normal HPC system operation.
There are currently few, if any, tools that provide continuous, low impact,
high fidelity system monitoring, analysis, and feedback that meet the
increasingly urgent resource efficiency optimization needs of HPC systems.

Modern processors and operating systems being used in HPC systems expose a
wealth of information about how system resources, including energy, are being
utilized. Lightweight tools that gather and analyze this information could
provide feedback, including run-time, to increase application performance;
optimize system resource utilization; and drive more efficient future HPC
system design.

The goal of this workshop is to provide an opportunity for researchers to
exchange new ideas, research, techniques, and tools in the area of HPC
monitoring, analysis, and feedback as it relates to increasing efficiency with
respect to energy, resource utilization, and application run-time.


<h2>Workshop on Representative Applications</h2>

Held as part of IEEE Cluster 2017, the Second International Workshop on
Representative Applications is concerned with the development and use of
representative applications (such as mini-applications or proxies) for all
aspects of high-performance computing.

The challenges posed by future systems: new architectures, programming models,
and machine scales; mean that representative applications as an essential tool
in the path towards exascale. These applications can be used for acceptance
testing, benchmarking, optimization evaluation, and also investigating the
performance of new architectures or programming models.  However, the
development of such representative applications must ensure they maintain some
correspondence with their parent application. Maintaining that correspondence
requires methods and tools for identifying the performance critical aspects of
a given code, or class of codes, and also for verifying that the proxy
accurately models the target behavior.

The main aim of WRAp is to provide a venue in which the wide range of
disciplines involved in creating and using representative applications can
share important discoveries and lessons learned from these applications.


